Group members:
Haoran Xu, Zhuo Xu, Greg Pope


Goal
possible features
Procedure
Work partition

Description: Multifunctional Exercise Monitor

Goal:

The goal of this group project is to design and implement a multifunctional exercise monitor 
that can monitor the correctness and count the number of the user’s movement to form a dynamic 
user profile, including average correctness, finish time or other user setting features. Both
the “goal” and result can be set and seen by the user, thus. It can improve user’s long term workout
performance and efficiency in a more data based routine.


possible features:

1.The basic functionality is to count the number of lift when doing exercise such as Incline
Dumbbell Hammer Curl or Barbell Bench Press. The general idea is to measure 3d movement of the 
device, which is sticked on hands or equipments. Then from the directional distance change, 
compared with calibrated upper and lower bound, it can determine whether the user completes one run.

2. It has LCD display for user interface.

3.It also has internal RAM that can be set by user, including number of exercises needed to 
complete, or at what “score”.

4. The device not only can collect movement data, it also can analyze the data to reflect 
user’s body conditions from data including movement complete rate, or movement complete percentage.
Then, user can have better acknowledgement of their experience. It also introduces a “score” system,
which is personalized based on user’s past experience.


Procedure:
We would first need to implement imaging software of some sort in order to detect when a person is in the target area, possibly 
a light source which could be infrared. The infrared light would need to communicate with a sensor to tell the device the location 
of the target individual. When the indivual can be detected, we need to use imaging software of some sort to be able to compare the movement
of the individual to the correct movement for the intended exercise.


Work partition:


